# Retired TODO and Milestones

## Release 0.2.0
 * TBD
 * June XX, 2021

### Milestones

 - [X] Release 0.2
   - [X] Implement a basic data catalog for data management
   - [X] Improve reproducibility of grids produced by the library
   - [X] Establish sphinx document generator and link to readthedocs
   - [X] Construct initial bathymetry grid for new grids
   - [X] Construct bathymetric roughness
   - [X] Construct initial grid ocean/land masks for new grids
   - [X] Creation of more of the needed files to run a MOM6 simulation
   - [X] Allow import of ROMS grid for conversion to MOM6
   - [X] Implement basic plotting of variable or other grid of information

### TODOs

 - general documentation
   - [X] enable sphinx as the documentation generator
   - [X] link to readthedocs
 - grid generation
   - [X] Spherical solution is complete via Niki''s ROMS to MOM6 converter
   - [X] Mercator (`angle_dx` might be 0 as it is lined up along
         latitude lines; except for tilt?)
   - [X] Polar
   - [X] make Stereographic grids; needs testing
     - [X] using meters; no tilt; based on code from Raphael
     - [X] using degrees; with tilt; based on code from Niki; may not be correct
 - [X] Gridutils initializes default ellipse with proj GRS80
 - [X] Allow user control of radius
 - integration of data sources
   - [X] implemented as topoutils.TopoUtils.regridTopo()
 - [X] add nbserverproxy/xgcm to conda software stacks; copied to
       binder environment.yml
 - [X] turn numpypi into a loadable package via pip
 - [X] refactor refineS and refineR options as Niki had them defined
 - [X] makeGrid assumes working in degrees
 - [X] Allow library to work in degree or meters
 - [X] Pass back an error graphic instead of None for figures that do
       not render
 - [X] gridtools.openDataset() should scan the dsName for a file: or
       http: address maybe using the parser to detect something that
       is not a catalog.  This routine could be improved.
 - [X] is there a reason to keep zeroed land mask depths in the ROMS
       to MOM6 converter? A future PR is changing this behavior.
       Adopted use of MASKING_DEPTH.

### BUGS
 - [X] app:Remote Files does not save the grid in the specified directory
 - [X] file:// spec does not honor relative paths.  There should be
       generic support for relative and absolute paths for file:// and
       ds:// file specs.  Discovered that the argument after (//) is
       a network specification.  (ds:/ == ds:///)  Relative paths
       should start right after the colon(:).

## Release 0.1.1
 * https://github.com/ESMG/gridtools/commit/5200c915caa5fe25ae192f6fc65bdc222447be7d
 * June 6, 2021

### Milestones

 - [X] Installation and usage tutorials
 - [X] Make library installable via pip or setup.py
 - [X] Create specific installation instructions
