# Retired TODO and Milestones

## Release 0.3.2
 * https://github.com/ESMG/gridtools/commit/...
 * November 16, 2021

### Milestones

 - [X] Update meshutils.writeLandMask() and meshutils.writeOceanMask() to search for x and y
       coordinates if not provided by the supplied variable.
 - [X] GridUtils.plotGrid() allow plotting of one or more grid points.
 - [X] Grid filling options (flooding; ice-9 algorithm)
 - [X] Plotting model grid: include option to show grid points on the grid.
 - [X] Fix GridUtils.regridTopo() halo effect on outer grid edge
   - [X] option to create ocean mask fraction
   - [X] investigate artifact generated in the grid corners; fix by extending grid and clipping result
 - [X] Implemented metadata functions: gridutils.updateGridMetadata(); gridutils.checkGridMetadata()
 - [X] Add or append to 'history' global variable.
 - [X] Auto extending known grid types to allow workarounds for calculations
       with artifacts around the edges.
 - [X] Add reference for Niki's `ocean_model_grid_generator`!
 - [X] Core model grid generic subsetting is available via gridutils.subsetGrid(); does not subset
       boundary conditions

### TODOs

 - [X] able to make and create stereographic grids
 - [X] Develop a field "flood" routine similar to pyroms; ported ice9 routine

### BUGS

 - [X] BUG: Fix example7 scripts so they can run independently of each other as examples.
 - [X] BUG: `gridtools.generate_regional_spherical_meters` fix spherical grid generation.  Resolves #16
 - [X] BUG: app: adjust grid center latitude bounds to -90 to +90. Resolves #16.
