# Releases 0.2.0

## Previous Release

Tag: 0.1.1 `5200c915caa5fe25ae192f6fc65bdc222447be7d`

# Checklist

 - [X] Verify operation of example notebooks
 - [X] Verify operation of example scripts
 - [X] Resync environments
   - [X] Pip requirements.txt should closely mirror gridTools.yml
   - [X] Update any special needs in requirements.txt
   - [X] Resync gridTools_export-linux-64.yml without pip modules
   - [X] Ensure `binder/environment.yml` is in sync
         with `conda/gridTools_export-linux-64.yml`
 - [X] Ensure release/version is properly updated in `gridtools/__init__.py`
 - [X] Modify any test CI Github Actions
 - [X] Update any tests performed by pytest
 - [X] Update TODOs.md
 - [ ] After submission of PR
   - [X] Review commit as necessary
   - [X] Verify CI/Actions pass
   - [X] Verify Read the Docs render correctly
   - [X] Verify mybinder.org is functional
 - [ ] Merge "Release 0.2.0" to main
   - [ ] Reverify mybinder.org operation
   - [ ] Ensure CI/Actions continue to pass
   - [ ] Ensure ReadtheDocs is correct
   - [ ] Ensure MDs on github renders correctly
 - [ ] Add and commit a tag with 0.2.0
 - [ ] Run through a Release on the github site

# General Release Notes

 - Adopt MOM6 license for the gridtools library.
 - Add the ability for basic plotting of a single variable.
 - Add the ability to write out FMS mosaic files.
   - Given `MINIMUM_DEPTH`, `MAXIMUM_DEPTH` and `MASKING_DEPTH`, the
     appropropriate masks are written to the exchange grids for
     `tile1` for any given bathymetry grid.
 - Ability to generate a topography/bathymetry grid from any
   data source.
 - Ability to generate a topography/bathymetry grid from any
   data source and generate a roughness parameter (h2) using
   a mesh refinement method.
 - Add the ability to convert a ROMS model grid to a MOM6
   model grid.
 - Use sphinx as the documentation pathway for the python
   library.
 - HTML and PDF documentation rendered to
   https://mom6gridtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html
 - Add cluster notes for chinook@UAF and triton@RU.
 - Add installation notes on RasPi4, an aarch64 platform type for independent comparisons.
 - References to papers and code being relocated to a central bibtex file used by sphinx (WIP).
 - Fixing up references to previously implemented code (WIP).
 - Remove extraneous whitespace.
 - Implement a catalog system for data sources (WIP).  It should not interfere with using
   files directly on a local system.  Allow experimentation with alternate DAP service.

# Bug Fixes
 
 - In the application, saving a remote file now goes to
   the specified filename and directory.
 - Pin version of python docutils to 0.16 to fix rendering
   of bullet items.

# API Changes

 - Use openGrid()/readGrid() to open and read existing MOM6 model grids.
 - Use openDataset() to open and read other gridded information.

# Post Release Notes

https://mom6gridtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html is currently tied to an
experimental branch.  Two copies should be tied to the dev and main branch once
PRs are accepted and code is merged.
