# Release 0.3.1

## Previous Release

Tag: 0.3.0 `2c15d5e82a28e1d485e669bbdbd3653be0b54e5b`

# Checklist

 - [X] Operating system checks
   - [X] `x86_64`: Ubuntu 20.04.2 LTS (64 GB)
   - [ ] `x86_64`: Ubuntu 20.04.2 LTS (12 GB VM)
   - [ ] `aarch64`: Raspberry Pi 4 (8 GB)
   - [X] `x86_64`: triton node (64 GB)
   - [ ] `x86_64`: chinook node (128 GB)
 - [X] Verify operation of example notebooks
 - [X] Verify operation of example scripts
 - [X] Resync environments
   - [X] Pip requirements.txt should closely mirror gridTools.yml
   - [X] Update any special needs in requirements.txt
   - [X] Resync `gridTools_export-linux-64.yml` without pip modules
   - [X] Resync `gridTools_export-linux-64-RTD.yml` without nodejs and pip modules
   - [X] Ensure `binder/environment.yml` is in sync
         with `conda/gridTools_export-linux-64.yml`
 - [X] Ensure release/version is properly updated in `gridtools/__init__.py`
 - [X] Modify any test CI Github Actions
 - [X] Update any tests performed by pytest
 - [X] Update TODOs.md, archiving completed TODOs and milestones
 - [X] Add contributors in their own section below for contributions via the pull request or related issues
 - [X] After submission of PR to main
   - [X] Review commit as necessary
   - [X] Verify CI/Actions pass
   - [X] Verify Read the Docs render correctly
   - [X] Verify mybinder.org is functional
 - [X] Merge "Release 0.3.1" to main
   - [X] Reverify mybinder.org operation
   - [X] Ensure CI/Actions continue to pass (requires manual request)
   - [X] Ensure MDs on github renders correctly
   - [X] Review, update and/or close any issues
 - [X] Add and commit a tag with 0.3.1
 - [X] Ensure Read the Docs renders correctly for `stable` (triggered after new tag is pushed)
 - [X] Run through a Release on the github site
 - [X] Place a release notice on the MOM6 forum

# General Release Notes

 - This is primarily a bug fix for api changes that occurred in xarray version 0.19.0.
 - Partial work includes a guide that compares grid generation tools.  The comparison
   is generation of a Mercator grid using the grid tools library and the FRE-NCtools
   software package.
 - The ocean model supergrid can now be plotted.
 - For Nearside Perspective projection plots, the satelliteHeight can be
   specified as a plot parameter to control the zoom on the plot.
 - The gridtools library now has separate classes for handling grid types
   for MOM6 and ROMS.  This provides a framework for other model types.
 - The ability for gridtools to write out ancillary files, FMS coupler and
   mosaic files, for MOM6 model runs is now possible.  See:
   [Build and Edit a MOM6 Grid in Jupyter](https://mom6gridtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/jupyterMOM6.html)
 - Add github templates for pull requests and issues to help information
   get to the right places.

# Bug Fixes

 - xarray=0.19.0 changed api handling of Datasets requiring the use of
   .data prior to creation of another Dataset variable. (Issue 1; Pull request #11)

# Contributors

 - Rob Cermak
 - Angus Gibson
 - Olga Sergienko
