# Release 0.3.2

## Previous Release

Tag: 0.3.1 `194d7b2e73e9365799a25977de6e84f5aaeae20c`

# Checklist

 - [X] Operating system checks
   - [X] `x86_64`: Ubuntu 20.04.2 LTS (64 GB)
   - [ ] `x86_64`: Ubuntu 20.04.2 LTS (12 GB VM) **Skipped**
   - [X] `aarch64`: Raspberry Pi 4 (8 GB)
   - [ ] `x86_64`: triton node (64 GB) **Cluster offline**
   - [X] `x86_64`: chinook node (128 GB)
 - [X] Verify operation of example notebooks
 - [X] Verify operation of example scripts
 - [X] Resync environments
   - [X] Pip requirements.txt should closely mirror gridTools.yml
   - [X] Update any special needs in requirements.txt
   - [X] Resync `gridTools_export-linux-64.yml` without pip modules
   - [X] Resync `gridTools_export-linux-64-RTD.yml` without nodejs and pip modules
   - [X] Ensure `binder/environment.yml` is in sync
         with `conda/gridTools_export-linux-64.yml`
 - [X] Ensure release/version is properly updated in `gridtools/__init__.py`
 - [X] Modify any test CI GitHub Actions
 - [X] Update any tests performed by pytest
 - [X] Update TODOs.md, archiving completed TODOs and milestones
 - [X] Add contributors in their own section below for contributions via the pull request or related issues
 - [X] After submission of PR to main
   - [X] Review commit as necessary
   - [X] Verify CI/Actions pass
   - [X] Verify Read the Docs render correctly
   - [X] Verify mybinder.org is functional
   - [X] Review, update and/or close any issues
 - [X] Merge "Release 0.3.2" to main
   - [X] Reverify mybinder.org operation
   - [X] Ensure CI/Actions continue to pass (requires manual request)
   - [X] Check CI/Actions Artifacts for proper results
   - [X] Ensure MDs on GitHub renders correctly
 - [X] Add and commit a tag with 0.3.2; add commit hash to archive/0.3.2.md
 - [X] Ensure Read the Docs renders correctly for `stable` (triggered after new tag is pushed)
 - [X] Run through a Release on the GitHub site
 - [X] Place a release notice on the MOM6 forum

# General Release Notes

 - This release resolves issues #15 and #16 with fixes to spherical grid support and
   the ability to extend a model grid for use in routines that generate artifacts on
   the boundaries.
 - ReadtheDocs resources were moved around such that the conda environment is a
   small subset of packages to get around a memory issue.  The remaining resources
   are loaded via pip.

# Bug Fixes

 - Fix example7 scripts so they can run independently of each other as examples.
 - `gridtools.generate_regional_spherical_meters` fix spherical grid generation.  Resolves #16
 - app: adjust grid center latitude bounds to -90 to +90. Resolves #16.

# API Changes

 - For some examples, the **i** verticies are now shown in yellow to show orientation of the grid and
   to make sure the grid orientation is correct as requested.
 - Updates to computeBathymeticRoughness()
   - Option FixByOverlapQHGridShift replaced with two boolean arguments: useQHGridShift, useOverlap 

# Contributors

 - Jessica Garwood, Kate Hedstrom: debugging and confirmation of problems generating MOM6 exchange
   grids using xarray or gridtools.
